This folder contains a step-by-step analysis of three neural models implemented in matlab. Includes both an analysis of the scientific theory behind the model and of the code itself.

1. AI Maze

	The foundation of the maze solving process is the combination of the two processes studied by Tolman and Hull; respectively the deliberative and habit systems. In early learning, a rat in a maze solving trial engages in the deliberative process, trying out various paths and attempting to determine at each crossroads which path will lead to the higher reward. (Redish, 199) Later in learning, however, the rats switches to a habit based action strategy, in which it develops response-chain habits and stops relying on the more computationally expensive deliberative system. (Redish 199)

	The transition between these two decision making systems is clearly illustrated by Packard and McGaugh. Rats were tested in a simple T-maze, where a right-turn was reinforced. When they were tested after 8 days of training with a reinforce on the left side instead, rats successfully switched their plan and took a left turn. This action-outcome decision is reliant on the hippocampus, and not on the dorsal striatum. Furthermore, when the rats were tested after 16 days of training, the opposite results were seen: rats continued to make the right-turn even when the reinforcer was on the left, relying on the S-R association in the dorsal-striatum system and not the hippocampal system.

	These concepts are further supported by Yin and Knowlton (2006). They showed that while win-stay training supported by the dorsal striatum is not affected by devaluation, win-shift performance that relies on the hippocampus is affected by devaluation. Thus, we can conclude that rewards resulting in dopamine bursts and dips are crucial in the beginning stages of learning but not for experienced foragers.


2. Feedback and Feedforward Control

	Feedback control is a method used to compare a performed action with the original action goal, and compute the difference between the two in order to achieve more optimal results with the next adjustment. The negative feedback controller (servo) performs this process with the goal of calculating the difference (comparator). However, negative feedback control on its own is unable to create a high performance system due to long lags.  Unlike in robotics, the nerves in our bodies transmit the signals relatively slowly, which would result in an excess of error signals reaching to movement point when the comparator is actually at zero. Since we do have nerves, not wires or optical cables, feedback control and feedforward control are used in conjunction.

	Central pattern generators automate a large portion of repetitive movements. Though they do not require sensory information, they perform much better with sensory feedback. These CPGS therefore operate on a combination of feedback control and learned feedforward control. Skill learning continues to be necessary since feedback control has a low upper bound on performance and can only perform corrections after an error has already been made. The cerebellum will perform functions of learned feedforward control and compensate for this.

	While we have established that negative feedback control will not produce perfect movements due to lags, gains, and a level of non-elimnable error at the end of the process, we will explore how exactly it is that the feedback lag values affect performance.

3. Adaptive force generation for preicision-grip lifting by a spectral timing model of the cerebellum

	The “Adaptive force generation for precision-grip lifting by a spectral timing model of the cerebellum” by Ulloa, A., Bullock, D., and Rhodes, B, illustrates how the process of grasping and lifting an object is controlled. The agent must apply a weight and texture dependent grip force that applies the minimal amount of pressure to hold the object, while also applying the appropriate load force to either lift, or lower the object. The model explains this phenomena through the process of learned slip-compensation mediated by the cerebellum.

	A predecessor for this model is the Adaptation of the Vestibular – ocular –reflex model in 1974. An image slip error signals that head rotation is necessary in order to maintain a point fixed in vision. This is implemented by Purkinje cells of the flocculus region of the cerebellar cortex which inhibit cells in the vestibular nuclei. This model operates based on the same principle, with slip error signals causing learning in the cerebellum and an eventual transition from reactive to anticipatory grip forces.

	The motor cortex and cerebellum play large roles in the control of precision grip, as evidenced by a close link between primary motor cortex activity and precision grip force. As shown by lesion and GABA agonist studies, when the motor cortex is not fully functional, actors must use whole hand prehension rather than precision grip. The motor cortex enables the actor to selectively activate one or a few effectors rather than all of them. Another key component is the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum (which projects to the MI via the thalamus). When it is impaired it also severley impairs precision grip. For example, monkeys will use 1 finger to retrieve food from a hole rather than 2 fingers in a pincer like movement. Furthermore, it causes a loss of anticipatory phasic components of MI cell discharges and switches from an efficient phasic strategy to a costly tonic strategy, resulting in a loss of cerebellar timing. The intermediate zone of the cerebella coretex, nucleus inrepositus also modulates grip. 


	The timing and variation of precision grip force is also closely linked to the timing of load force. The two have to work in conjunction to properly grip and lift an object. Though load force and error works in a similar fashion to grip force the main focus of this model is grip force control, with the goal of formalizing the role of MI and cerebellum in learned transitions from reactive to anticipatory application of grip forces whole magnitudes are texture and weight dependent.
